[ADD] email marketing: lost leads email doc (#7623)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/marketing/email_marketing/lost_leads_email.rst

   :guilabel:`Recipients` filter list reads :guilabel:`Match all of the following rules`. If it does
   not, click on the statement, and select :guilabel:`all` from the drop-down menu (as opposed to
   :guilabel:`any`).

   .. image:: lost_leads_email/match-all.png
      :align: center
      :alt: The statement at the top of the filters list, with the drop-down menu open.

4. Now add :guilabel:`Stage` filters to exclude leads in the *New*, *Qualified*, and *Won* stages of
   the sales pipeline.

   .. note::
      This step assumes that the *New*, *Qualified*, and *Won* stages exist in the CRM pipeline,
      however stage names may differ from business to business. Refer to the database's actual
      stage names in the *CRM* app's pipeline to complete this step, accordingly.

   Begin again by clicking :guilabel:`New Rule` and selecting :guilabel:`Stage` from the first
   field's drop-down menu. In the second field, select the :guilabel:`does not contain` operator,
   and in the third field, type `new` as the rule's defining parameter.

   Next, click the :guilabel:`➕ (plus)` icon to the right of the rule's row to duplicate it, and in

>    the new rule's third field, delete :guilabel:`new`, and enter :guilabel:`qualified`. After that

Reviewer: Rewrote the section here to just use the **is in** vs. **contains** operator since it's easier + more efficient to do. Should help clean up the gui problem here and in other sections throughout the doc.

      :align: center
      :alt: A list of filter rules that exclude all lost reasons other than the desired reason.

6. Finally, add a pair of :guilabel:`Active` filters to include both active and inactive leads for
   the campaign.

   .. important::
      Adding both active **and** inactive lead records is necessary to capture the full scope of
      lost leads in the database. Doing one without the other greatly impacts the number of
      targetable records for the email campaign, and will not include a complete or accurate lost
      leads audience.

   Click the :guilabel:`(Add Branch)` icon to the right of the latest rule's row to add a pair of
   :guilabel:`any of` rules. In the top rule's first field, select the :guilabel:`Active` parameter
   from the drop-down menu. The rule will then automatically fill out to read: :guilabel:`Active`
   *is* `set`.

   For the first field of the bottom rule, once more select :guilabel:`Active` from the drop-down
   menu and, this time, select :guilabel:`is not` from the operator drop-down menu, so the rule
   reads: :guilabel:`Active` *is not* `set`.

   .. image:: lost_leads_email/active.png
      :align: center

>       :alt: A pair of Match Any Of filter rules that include both active and inactive leads.

Reviewer 2: Why are the '+' icons highlighted in this screenshot?

Reviewer: I'm going to take new screenshots here, as the `+` only pertains to duplicating rule rows in the case of *contains* or *does not contain* operators (which is being replaced anw).

7. Now, with the domain section of the email campaign complete, create the body content of the email
   using any of the premade stylized templates, or choose between the :guilabel:`Plain Text` or
   :guilabel:`Start From Scratch` options for more granular control. For more information, refer to
   the *Email Marketing* :ref:`documentation on how to create an email
   <email_marketing/create_email>`.

.. tip::

>    To save this set of filters for later use, click :guilabel:`Save as Favorite Filter`, enter a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   To save this set of filters for later use, click :guilabel:`Save as Favorite Filter`, enter a
```

Maybe helpful to add the floppy disk icon in for the button?

Reviewer: Done!

   name (such as *Lost Leads*), and click :guilabel:`Add`.

   .. image:: lost_leads_email/favorite-filter.png
      :align: center
      :alt: The Save as Favorite Filter pop-up can save the lost leads criteria for later.

8. Once all the components of the email campaign are complete:

   - Click :guilabel:`Send` to immediately send the email;

     OR
   - Click :guilabel:`Schedule` to send the email at a future date and time.

.. tip::
   Consider using A/B Testing to send an alternate version of the email to a percentage of the
   target leads. This can help determine what subject lines and body content produce the best
   click-through rates before sending a final version to the remaining leads.

   To do so, open the :guilabel:`A/B Tests` tab and check the box next to :guilabel:`Allow A/B
   Testing`. Adjust the parameters as needed, and click :guilabel:`Create an Alternative Version`.

   .. image:: lost_leads_email/ab-testing.png
      :align: center

>       :alt: The A/B Tests tab with the Allow A/B Testing box checked to create an alternate version.

Reviewer 2: Optional suggestion: maybe add some highlights to this screenshot.

Reviewer: I see what you mean because there are many choices to make there. In this case, it makes sense for the user to experiment around on this tab, and I can write up a whole other doc on the different options and how-to's there.

:doc:`../../sales/crm/pipeline/lost_opportunities`.

By default, Odoo does include a few common reasons such as:

- *Too expensive*
- *We don't have people/skills*
- *Not enough stock*

When determining which reasons to include in a lost leads reactivation email, consider what the
email is advertising in order pinpoint one or more relevant lost reasons. Then add a rule stating
:guilabel:`Lost Reason` *does not contain* `_____` for every reason in the database **except** for
the relevant one(s).

.. example::
   If the email advertises a selection of previously limited merchandise that is now back in stock,
   it makes sense to target leads with the lost reason: *not enough stock*. To do so, add rules that
   exclude all reasons except *not enough stock*.

   .. image:: lost_leads_email/out-of-stock.png
      :align: center
      :alt: A list of filter rules that exclude all lost reasons except for Out of Stock.

   If the email advertises a price reduction, it makes sense to target leads with the lost reason:
   *too expensive*. To do so, add rules that exclude all reasons except *too expensive*.

   .. image:: lost_leads_email/too-expensive.png
      :align: center

>       :alt: A list of filter rules that exclude all lost reasons except for Too Expensive.

Reviewer 2: Can you add the filter 'does contain' too expensive or not enough stock? OR does it need to be the other way around and include the does not contain filters?

Reviewer: Yea that's better logic actually, to do the *inclusive* option instead of hunting down and including all of the exclusions 👍

.. _analyze_results:

Analyze the results
===================

After sending a lost leads reactivation email, marketing teams can use the smart buttons along the
top of the email to analyze the results and determine follow-up actions.

Clicking on any of the smart buttons opens a list of the records matching that button's specific
criteria.

.. image:: lost_leads_email/smart-buttons.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Mailing page of a sent email showing the smart buttons along the top of the page.

The smart buttons include:

- :guilabel:`Sent`: the total number of emails that were sent.
- :guilabel:`Opened`: the percentage of recipients that opened the email.
- :guilabel:`Replied`: the percentage of recipients that replied to the email.
- :guilabel:`Clicked`: the click-through rate (%) of recipients that clicked on a link in the email.

> - :guilabel:`Leads`: the number of leads that have been created in the *CRM* pipeline as a result of

Reviewer 2: Showing as opportuniites in 17.0 runbot
![2024-03-27_10-11](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/91896312/f94c5235-6981-4b8b-9da3-fbd2df0d8b90)

Reviewer: Wild, it shows up as Leads on mine and on internal 😆 
![Screenshot 2024-03-27 at 2 57 33 PM](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/5496809/d0d8a67d-589c-4037-9110-f2820d14d158)

This might change based on how the CRM is set up (whether or not the **Leads** feature is activated), so I'll put `Leads/Opportunities` instead to cover both use cases

- :guilabel:`Received`: the percentage of recipients that received the email.
- :guilabel:`Bounced`: the percentage of emails that bounced :dfn:`not delievered`
- :guilabel:`Ignored`: the number of recipients that received the email but have not interacted with
  it in a meaningful way (i.e. opened, clicked)

Email nurturing
---------------

*Email nurturing* (sometimes referred to as *lead nurturing*) is the process of sending a series of
timely and relevant *nudge* emails to connect with a lead, build a deeper relationship, and
ultimately convert the lead into a sale.

The point of nurturing is to keep the email campaign "visible" or at the top of a lead's inbox until
they are ready to buy. There are many approaches to effective lead nurturing, but it often involves:

- sending an initial email (such as a lost leads reactivation email)
- sending a follow-up email each week (or according to specific triggers) for the duration of the
  campaign
- continuously analyzing the results to see what approaches have resulted in sales
- continuously adjusting the approach to remain "visible" at the top of the lead's inbox and get a

>   meaningful response from the lead

Reviewer 2: Capitals for the first letter and punctuation at the end?

Reviewer: Sure, that seems to be the team's preference anw 👍

=============================
Lost leads reactivation email
=============================

In Odoo, lost leads are removed from the active *CRM* pipeline, but can still be targeted with the
*Email Marketing* application for strategic campaign use such as lost leads reactivation.

A lost leads reactivation email looks at the leads that were lost during a specific period of time,
and uses a few custom filters and lost reasons to exclude undesirable leads from the mailing list.

> Once a lost leads reactivation email is complete, it can be sent as is, modified and sent to

Reviewer: interesting, TIL! 🤔

   - :guilabel:`Blacklist` *is* `not set`
   - :guilabel:`Created on` *>=* `01/01/2024 00:00:01`
   - :guilabel:`Stage` *is not in* `New`, `Qualified`, or `Won`
   - :guilabel:`Lost Reason` *is in* `Not enough stock`
   - and either :guilabel:`Active` *is* `set` or `not set`

   .. image:: lost_leads_email/example.png
      :align: center
      :alt: A lost leads reactivation filter list excluding lost reasons like Too Expensive.

.. tip::
   As filters are added and removed, pay attention to the :guilabel:`# record(s)` value below the
   filtering section. This value indicates the total number of records that match the current
   criteria.

   To view a list of all matching records, click the :guilabel:`# record(s)` text.

   .. image:: lost_leads_email/records.png
      :align: center
      :alt: The # record(s) text is located below the list of Recipient filters.

.. _create_email:

Minimum requirements
====================

In order to create and deliver a lost leads reactivation email campaign, the *CRM* and *Email
Marketing* applications must be :doc:`installed <../../general/apps_modules>` and configured.

> Here are the minimum necessary filters that pertain to a lost leads reactivation mailing campaign:

Reviewer: Yea, good suggestion; I added it 👍

- A **Blacklist** filter to exclude unsubscribed recipients
- A **Created on** filter to target leads that were lost during a specific period of time
- **Stage** filter(s) to exclude leads that were already won or are still active in new stages of
  the sales pipeline (i.e., *New*, *Qualified*, etc.). These values will be different per

>   organization, however it's minimally viable to exclude all the leads in the *Won* stage.

Reviewer: I like the suggestion, and a semicolon here, instead;
```
  organization; however, it's minimally viable to exclude all the leads in the *Won* stage.
```

- One or more **Lost Reason** filters to exclude undesired leads, such as duplicate, spam, or
  irrelevant records.

> - A pair of **Active** filters to target *both* active and inactive leads

Reviewer: Added a period here and at the end of the other list items too, for consistency. TIKU already brought it up on another bulleted list so it should all match now.

> - A pair of **Active** filters to target *both* active and inactive leads

Reviewer: > Quick Thought: Would it be helpful to add anchors for each of the following filter breakdowns that appear below? Could add a cool layer of accessibility to the overall doc. Not a requirement, though. Just a suggestion.

I like this a lot. Will add them in 👍

Add the necessary filters

> =========================

Reviewer: I see what you mean about being more succinct, especially since it's a heading.
I do, however, disagree on this one since these are *specific* filters, and are not optional to send this campaign; I want to indicate this and believe removing the article might imply some optionality here, when that's actually not the case.

:guilabel:`New` button in the top-left corner.

On the new :guilabel:`Mailings` form, enter an appropriate :guilabel:`Subject` line for the email in
the corresponding field. Then in the :guilabel:`Recipients` field, choose the
:guilabel:`Lead/Opportunity` model from the drop-down menu.

In the rules section, click the modify filter (:guilabel:`▶ (triangle pointing right)`) icon, below
the :guilabel:`Recipients` field, to expand the filter rules. Leave the default
:guilabel:`Blacklist` rule in place.

Created on
----------

Begin by clicking and :guilabel:`New Rule` and select the :guilabel:`Created on` parameter in the
new rule's first field, from the drop-down menu, to designate a specific time period during which
the targeted leads were lost (i.e. 30 days prior, 90 days prior, previous year, etc.).

Then, in the second field, select a date operator :guilabel:`<= (less than or equal to)`,
:guilabel:`>= (greater than or equal to)`, or :guilabel:`is between` in order to frame the time
selection chosen in the third field.

In the third field, use the calendar popover window to select dates, and click :guilabel:`Apply` to

> lock in the time range.

Reviewer: There's no hyphen in the gui term: [popover](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Popover_(GUI))

.. image:: lost_leads_email/created-on.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A custom filter rule setting the time period to be anything before today's date.

.. important::
   When there is more than one rule applied, make sure the statement at the top of the
   :guilabel:`Recipients` filter list reads :guilabel:`Match all of the following rules`. If it does
   not, click on the statement, and select :guilabel:`all` from the drop-down menu (as opposed to

>    :guilabel:`any`).

Reviewer: I agree with adding a piece of punctuation here, however I'll use a colon (instead of a comma) for emphasis

   .. image:: lost_leads_email/match-all.png
      :align: center
      :alt: The statement at the top of the filters list, with the drop-down menu open.

Stage
-----

Now add :guilabel:`Stage` filter to exclude leads in the *New*, *Qualified*, and *Won* stages of
the sales pipeline.

.. note::
   This step assumes that the *New*, *Qualified*, and *Won* stages exist in the CRM pipeline,
   however stage names may differ from business to business. Refer to the database's actual stage
   names in the *CRM* app's pipeline to complete this step, accordingly.

Begin again by clicking :guilabel:`New Rule` and selecting :guilabel:`Stage` from the first field's\
drop-down menu. In the second field, select the :guilabel:`is not in` operator, and in the third
field, select the :guilabel:`New`, :guilabel:`Qualified` and :guilabel:`Won` stages to define the

> rule's parameters.

Reviewer: Fixed the `\` typo

> When the rule is added in this way, the logic in the third field renders as OR (`|`) statements.

Reviewer: You're right, we should format the operator here. Think it's a good excuse to use the **:code:** declaration!

.. image::  lost_leads_email/stage-is-in.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Include multiple Stages in the filtering rule, using the "is in" operator

.. tip::

>    Another way to add *Stage* rules, is to do so on a one-rule-per-row basis using the
>    :guilabel:`contains` or :guilabel:`does not contain` operators, and manually typing out the
>    defining characters in each stage name. This method, however, only allows for one selection at a
>    time, which can be useful for quickly turning on/off filters in the :guilabel:`Search...` bar.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Another way to add :guilabel:`Stage` rules, is to do so on a one-rule-per-row basis, using the
   :guilabel:`contains` or :guilabel:`does not contain` operators, then manually typing out the
   defining characters in each stage name.
   
   This method, however, only allows for one selection at a time, which can be useful for quickly
   turning on/off filters in the :guilabel:`Search...` bar.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: might be an extra line of space between the admonition and the image -- worth a quick double-check 👍

Reviewer: Yup, removed it 👍

   .. image:: lost_leads_email/stages.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Three filter rules requiring that the Stage does not contain New, Qualified, or Won.

Lost Reason
-----------

> Next, add one or more :guilabel:`Lost Reason` rules to exclude leads that should not be targeted for
> specific :doc:`lost reasons <../../sales/crm/pipeline/lost_opportunities>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next, add one (or more) :guilabel:`Lost Reason` rule(s) to exclude leads that should **not** be
targeted for specific :doc:`lost reasons <../../sales/crm/pipeline/lost_opportunities>`.
```

Reviewer: emphasized **not**

> Create another :guilabel:`New Rule`, and in the rule's first field, select :guilabel:`Lost Reason`
> from the drop-down menu. For the operator, choose either :guilabel:`is not in` or :guilabel:`does
> not contain` from the drop-down menu. With either selection, use the third field to enter a lost
> reason (or multiple lost reasons, depending on your operator choice) to include in the rule.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To do that, click :guilabel:`New Rule` once again. Then, in the rule's first field, select
:guilabel:`Lost Reason` from the drop-down menu.

For the operator in the second field, choose either :guilabel:`is not in` or :guilabel:`does not
contain` from the drop-down menu.

With either of those selections in the second field, use the third field to enter a lost reason (or
multiple lost reasons, depending on the operator choice) to include in the rule.
```

Reviewer: Added transitional language.
I don't, however, like to break up paragraphs that are a part of the same breath of instructions.

> If choosing the :guilabel:`does not contain` operator, then repeat the preceding steps to add more
> lost reasons, as needed, where each lost reason occupies one rule row at a time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If choosing the :guilabel:`does not contain` operator, repeat the preceding steps to add more lost
reasons, as needed, where each lost reason occupies one rule row at a time.
```

For more information, refer to the section below outlining how to :ref:`select appropriate lost
reasons <email_marketing/select_lost_reasons>`.

.. image:: lost_leads_email/reasons.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A list of filter rules that exclude all lost reasons other than the desired reason.

Active
------

Finally, add a pair of :guilabel:`Active` filters to include both active and inactive leads for the
campaign.

.. important::

>    Adding both active **and** inactive lead records is necessary to capture the full scope of lost
>    leads in the database. Doing one without the other greatly impacts the number of targetable
>    records for the email campaign, and will not include a complete or accurate lost leads audience.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Adding both active *and* inactive lead records is necessary to capture the full scope of lost
   leads in the database. Doing one without the other, greatly impacts the number of targetable
   records for the email campaign, and does **not** include a complete or accurate lost leads
   audience.
```

> Click the :guilabel:`(Add Branch)` icon to the right of the latest rule's row to add a pair of
> :guilabel:`any of` rules. In the top rule's first field, select the :guilabel:`Active` parameter
> from the drop-down menu. The rule will then automatically fill out to read: :guilabel:`Active` *is*
> `set`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First, click the :guilabel:`(Add Branch)` icon on the most recently created rule (i.e.
:guilabel:`Lost Reason`), which is the second of three icons located to the right of the rule row.
Doing so adds a pair of :guilabel:`any of` rules.

In the top rule's first field of the newly-created branch, select the :guilabel:`Active` parameter
from the drop-down menu. Upon selecting that, the rule automatically populates to read:
:guilabel:`Active` *is* `set`.
```

> For the first field of the bottom rule, once more, select :guilabel:`Active` from the drop-down
> menu and, this time, select :guilabel:`is not` from the operator drop-down menu, so the rule reads:
> :guilabel:`Active` *is not* `set`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For the first field of the bottom rule of the branch, select :guilabel:`Active` from the drop-down
menu again. However, this time, select :guilabel:`is not` from the operator drop-down menu in the
second field. The rule should then read: :guilabel:`Active` *is not* `set`.
```

.. image:: lost_leads_email/active.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A pair of Match Any Of filter rules that include both active and inactive leads.

Add body content
================

> Now, with the domain section of the email campaign complete, create the body content of the email
> using any of the premade stylized templates, or choose between the :guilabel:`Plain Text` or
> :guilabel:`Start From Scratch` options for more granular control. For more information, refer to the
> *Email Marketing* :ref:`documentation on how to create an email <email_marketing/create_email>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now, with the domain section of the email campaign complete, create the body content of the email,
using any of the premade stylized templates, or choose between the :guilabel:`Plain Text` or
:guilabel:`Start From Scratch` options for more granular control.

For more information, refer to the *Email Marketing* :ref:`documentation on how to create an email
<email_marketing/create_email>`.
```

.. tip::

>    To save the set of filters for later use, click :guilabel:`Save as Favorite Filter 💾`, enter a
>    name (such as `Lost Leads`), and click :guilabel:`Add`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   To save the set of filters for later use, click :guilabel:`Save as Favorite Filter 💾 (floppy
   disk)` icon, enter a name (such as `Lost Leads`), and click :guilabel:`Add`.
```

Reviewer: I'm glad you pointed this out, because I thought about adding the accessibility tag here like usual, (like we would in such a case as "Click the :guilabel:`➡️ (right arrow)` icon...) however, I decided _not_ to add it since it's not necessary for the reader's comprehension or for valuable action to take place. If the emoji doesn't render in the html, it doesn't matter.

That being said, I'm not so sure breaking the precedent is worth it, so I'll add it back in.

   .. image:: lost_leads_email/favorite-filter.png
      :align: center
      :alt: The Save as Favorite Filter pop-up can save the lost leads criteria for later.

Send or schedule
================

Once all the components of the email campaign are complete:

- Click the purple :guilabel:`Send` button at the top-left of the form to immediately send the

>   email;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  email.
```

Reviewer: Disagree, as we're entertaining multiple options within the same breath, and the semicolon indicates this; semicolons are acceptable [to indicate the items are separated within continuing, punctuated text](https://www.grammarbook.com/blog/semicolons/semicolon-use-in-lists/).

I did, however, remove the styling around "OR" and the capital letters, since those were not correct.

```suggestion

Once all the components of the email campaign are complete, either:

- click the purple :guilabel:`Send` button at the top-left of the form to immediately send the
  email; or
- click the gray :guilabel:`Schedule` button, located to the right of the :guilabel:`Send` button, to
  send the email at a future date and time.
```

  OR

> - Click gray :guilabel:`Schedule` button, located to the right of the :guilabel:`Send` button, to
>   send the email at a future date and time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Click the gray :guilabel:`Schedule` button, located to the right of the :guilabel:`Send` button,
  to send the email at a future date and time.
```

.. tip::

>    Consider using A/B Testing to send an alternate version of the email to a percentage of the
>    target leads. This can help determine what subject lines and body content produce the best
>    click-through rates before sending a final version to the remaining leads.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Consider using *A/B Testing* to send an alternate version of the email to a percentage of the
   target leads. This can help determine what subject lines and body content produce the best
   click-through rates, before sending a final version to the remaining leads.
```
suggestion the use of italics here, as this reads as more of a brief definition/helpful tip

>    To do so, open the :guilabel:`A/B Tests` tab and check the box next to :guilabel:`Allow A/B
>    Testing`. Adjust the parameters as needed, and click :guilabel:`Create an Alternative Version`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   To do so, open the :guilabel:`A/B Tests` tab on the mailing form, and check the box next to
   :guilabel:`Allow A/B Testing`. Then, adjust the parameters as needed, and click :guilabel:`Create
   an Alternative Version`.
```

   .. image:: lost_leads_email/ab-testing.png
      :align: center
      :alt: The A/B Tests tab with the Allow A/B Testing box checked to create an alternate version.

.. _email_marketing/select_lost_reasons:

Select appropriate lost reasons
===============================

When a lead is marked as lost, Odoo recommends selecting a *Lost Reason* to indicate why the
opportunity did not result in a sale. Doing so keeps the pipeline organized and reporting data

> accurate, and also generates potential to follow up with the lead in the future.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
accurate. This tactic also generates the potential to follow-up with that lead in the future.
```

Reviewer: I think the solution here actually is to remove a word, so I did this instead:

```suggestion
accurate, and generates potential to follow up with the lead in the future.`
```

If an existing *Lost Reason* is not applicable, users with the necessary permissions can create new

> ones, which means the lost reasons in a database vary from organization to organization and pipeline
> to pipeline. For more information on *Lost Reasons*, including the creation of them, refer to
> :doc:`../../sales/crm/pipeline/lost_opportunities`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ones. This means the lost reasons in a database can vary from organization to organization, and from
pipeline to pipeline.

For more information on *Lost Reasons*, including the creation of them, refer to
:doc:`../../sales/crm/pipeline/lost_opportunities`.
```

> By default, Odoo does include a few common reasons such as:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, Odoo includes a few common *Lost Reasons*, such as:
```

- *Too expensive*
- *We don't have people/skills*
- *Not enough stock*

When determining which reasons to include in a lost leads reactivation email, consider what the

> email is advertising in order pinpoint one or more relevant lost reasons. Then add a rule stating
> :guilabel:`Lost Reason` *does not contain* `_____` for every reason in the database **except** for
> the relevant one(s).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
email is advertising, in order pinpoint one or more relevant lost reasons. Then, add a rule stating,
:guilabel:`Lost Reason` *does not contain* `_____` for every reason in the database, **except** for
the relevant one(s).
```

.. example::

>    If the email advertises a selection of previously limited merchandise that is now back in stock,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   If the email advertises a selection of previously-limited merchandise that is now back in stock,
```

   it makes sense to target leads with the lost reason: *not enough stock*.

   .. image:: lost_leads_email/out-of-stock.png
      :align: center
      :alt: A list of filter rules that exclude all lost reasons except for Out of Stock.

   If the email advertises a price reduction, it makes sense to target leads with the lost reason:
   *too expensive*.

   .. image:: lost_leads_email/too-expensive.png
      :align: center
      :alt: A list of filter rules that exclude all lost reasons except for Too Expensive.

.. _analyze_results:

Analyze the results
===================

After sending a lost leads reactivation email, marketing teams can use the smart buttons along the

> top of the email to analyze the results and determine follow-up actions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
top of the email to analyze the results, and determine follow-up actions.
```

> Clicking on any of the smart buttons opens a list of the records matching that button's specific
> criteria.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Clicking on any of the smart buttons opens a list of records matching that button's specific
criteria.
```

.. image:: lost_leads_email/smart-buttons.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Mailing page of a sent email showing the smart buttons along the top of the page.

The smart buttons include:

> - :guilabel:`Sent`: the total number of emails that were sent.
> - :guilabel:`Opened`: the percentage of recipients that opened the email.
> - :guilabel:`Replied`: the percentage of recipients that replied to the email.
> - :guilabel:`Clicked`: the click-through rate (%) of recipients that clicked on a link in the email.
> - :guilabel:`Leads/Opportunities`: the number of leads (or opportunities) that have been created in
>   the *CRM* pipeline as a result of the email campaign.
> - :guilabel:`Quotations`: the number of quotations that have been created in the *Sales* application
>   as a result of the email.
> - :guilabel:`Invoiced`: the total revenues generated as a result of the email campaign, via invoices
>   sent to and paid by customers. These values are recorded in either the *Invoicing* or *Accounting*
>   application, depending on whichever is installed on the database.
> - :guilabel:`Received`: the percentage of recipients that received the email.
> - :guilabel:`Bounced`: the percentage of emails that bounced :dfn:`not delievered`
> - :guilabel:`Ignored`: the number of recipients that received the email but have not interacted with
>   it in a meaningful way (i.e. opened, clicked)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Sent`: total number of emails sent.
- :guilabel:`Opened`: percentage of recipients that opened the email.
- :guilabel:`Replied`: percentage of recipients that replied to the email.
- :guilabel:`Clicked`: click-through rate (%) of recipients that clicked on a link in the email.
- :guilabel:`Leads/Opportunities`: number of leads (or opportunities) that have been created in
  the *CRM* pipeline, as a result of the email campaign.
- :guilabel:`Quotations`: number of quotations that have been created in the *Sales* application,
  as a result of the email.
- :guilabel:`Invoiced`: total revenues generated, as a result of the email campaign, via invoices
  sent to, and paid by, customers. These values are recorded in either the *Invoicing* or
  *Accounting* application, depending on which app is installed in the database.
- :guilabel:`Received`: percentage of recipients that received the email.
- :guilabel:`Bounced`: percentage of emails that bounced (:dfn:`not delievered`).
- :guilabel:`Ignored`: number of recipients that received the email, but have not interacted with
  it in a meaningful way (i.e. opened, clicked, etc.).
```

Email nurturing
===============

*Email nurturing* (sometimes referred to as *lead nurturing*) is the process of sending a series of

> timely and relevant *nudge* emails to connect with a lead, build a deeper relationship, and
> ultimately convert the lead into a sale.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
timely and relevant "nudge" emails to connect with a lead, build a deeper relationship, and
ultimately, convert the lead into a sale.
```

> The point of nurturing is to keep the email campaign "visible" or at the top of a lead's inbox until
> they are ready to buy. There are many approaches to effective lead nurturing, but it often involves:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The point of nurturing is to keep the email campaign "visible," or at the top of a lead's inbox,
until they are ready to buy.

There are many approaches to effective lead nurturing, but it often involves the following:
```

Reviewer: I incorporated your suggestion and also fixed the singular/plural mismatch:

```suggestion
The point of nurturing is to keep the email campaign "visible" or at the top of a lead's inbox,
until they are ready to buy.

There are many approaches to effective lead nurturing, but they often involve:
```

> - Sending an initial email (such as a lost leads reactivation email).
> - Sending a follow-up email each week (or according to specific triggers) for the duration of the
>   campaign.
> - Continuously analyzing the results to see what approaches have resulted in sales.
> - Continuously adjusting the approach to remain "visible" at the top of the lead's inbox and get a
>   meaningful response from the lead.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Sending an initial email (such as, a lost leads reactivation email).
- Sending a follow-up email each week (or according to specific triggers) for the duration of the
  campaign.
- Continuously analyzing results to learn what approaches have resulted in sales.
- Continuously adjusting the approach to remain "visible" at the top of the lead's inbox, and
  hopefully, get a meaningful response from the lead.
```

> As a campaign progress, a marketing team may send different follow-up emails depending on how a lead
> responded the previous week.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a campaign progresses, a marketing team may send different follow-up emails, depending on how a
lead responded the previous week.
```

.. example::
   A marketing team wants to advertise a restocking of limited-run merchandise to all leads with a
   lost reason of *not enough stock*. They develop the following three-week long lead nurturing
   campaign.

>    - **Week 1:** the marketing team sends an initial email with a subject line of *“Limited run

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   - **Week 1:** the marketing team sends an initial email, with the subject line: *“Limited run
```

     merchandise is back in stock! Act now!”*
   - **Week 2:** the marketing team sends two different emails, depending on how a lead responded.

     - If a lead ignored the Week 1 email: *“Stock is almost out, did you get yours?”*
     - If a lead clicked on the Week 1 email: *"You still have time to add this to your collection"*

   - **Week 3:** the marketing team sends a final email to all leads who have not been converted

>      stating *“20% off, don't miss your last chance to get these items before they're gone!”*

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     stating: *“20% off, don't miss your last chance to get these items before they're gone!”*
```

   Throughout the campaign, the marketing team continuously refers to the smart buttons along the
   top of the mailing page to see what percentages of leads are opening, clicking on, or ignoring

>    the emails, as well as to report on how many opportunities, quotations, and invoices have been
>    generated by the campaign.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   the emails. They also regularly analyze reports on how many opportunities, quotations, and
   invoices have been generated by the campaign.
```

  *Won* stage.
- One or more :ref:`Lost Reason <email_marketing/lost_reason_filter>` filters to exclude undesired
  leads, such as duplicate, spam, or irrelevant records.
- A pair of :ref:`Active <email_marketing/active_filter>` filters to target *both* active and
  inactive leads.

Add the necessary filters
=========================

First, navigate to the *Email Marketing* app, and on the :guilabel:`Mailings` page, click the
:guilabel:`New` button in the top-left corner.

.. _email_marketing/recipients_field:

On the new :guilabel:`Mailings` form, enter an appropriate :guilabel:`Subject` line for the email in
the corresponding field. Then, in the :guilabel:`Recipients` field, choose the
:guilabel:`Lead/Opportunity` model from the drop-down menu.

.. _email_marketing/blacklist_filter:

In the rules section, located beneath the :guilabel:`Recipients` field, click the modify filter
(:guilabel:`▶ (triangle pointing right)`) icon to expand the filter rules. Leave the default
:guilabel:`Blacklist` rule in place.

.. _email_marketing/created_on_filter:

Created on
----------

Begin by clicking :guilabel:`New Rule` beneath the default :guilabel:`Blacklist` rule. Then, click

> the first field of the new rule that appears, and select the :guilabel:`Created on` parameter from

Reviewer: Yea I see what you mean.
I think it's [arguably more "truthy" to say field](https://uxplanet.org/the-anatomy-of-input-field-c3ef863e01d7) since it's an *input field*, where *input* is the qualifying adjective to the noun *field*. Where it gets confusing, to me at least, is that the back-end terminology Odoo uses also matches the front-end in this case, since they're both "fields." 😅 
With that said, I'd like to keep it as is for now and see how it sits in the wild, with the hope that someone in the community would give us corrective feedback, if it's needed.

field, select the :guilabel:`New`, :guilabel:`Qualified` and :guilabel:`Won` stages to define the
rule's parameters.

When the rule is added in this way, the logic in the third field renders as :code:`OR` (`|`)
statements.

.. image::  lost_leads_email/stage-is-in.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Include multiple Stages in the filtering rule, using the "is in" operator

.. tip::
   Another way to add *Stage* rules, is to do so on a one-rule-per-row basis using the
   :guilabel:`contains` or :guilabel:`does not contain` operators, and manually typing out the
   defining characters in each stage name. This method, however, only allows for one selection at a
   time, which can be useful for quickly turning on/off filters in the :guilabel:`Search...` bar.

   .. image:: lost_leads_email/stages.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Three filter rules requiring that the Stage does not contain New, Qualified, or Won.

.. _email_marketing/lost_reason_filter:

Lost Reason
-----------

Next, add one or more :guilabel:`Lost Reason` rules to exclude leads that should **not** be targeted
for specific :doc:`lost reasons <../../sales/crm/pipeline/lost_opportunities>`.

> To do that, create another :guilabel:`New Rule`, once again. Then, in the rule's first field, select

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To do that, create another :guilabel:`New Rule`, once again. Then, in the rule's first input, select
```

:guilabel:`Lost Reason` from the drop-down menu. For the operator, choose either :guilabel:`is not
in` or :guilabel:`does not contain` from the drop-down menu. With either selection, use the third

> field to enter a lost reason (or multiple lost reasons, depending on your operator choice) to

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
input to enter a lost reason (or multiple lost reasons, depending on your operator choice) to
```

reasons <email_marketing/select_lost_reasons>`.

.. image:: lost_leads_email/reasons.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A list of filter rules that exclude all lost reasons other than the desired reason.

.. _email_marketing/active_filter:

Active
------

Finally, add a pair of :guilabel:`Active` filters to include both active and inactive leads for the
campaign.

.. important::
   Adding both active *and* inactive lead records is necessary to capture the full scope of lost
   leads in the database. Doing one without the other greatly impacts the number of targetable
   records for the email campaign, and does **not** include a complete or accurate lost leads
   audience.

First, click the :guilabel:`(Add Branch)` icon on the most recently created rule (e.g.
:guilabel:`Lost Reason`), which is the middle of three icons located to the right of the rule row.
Doing so adds a pair of :guilabel:`any of` rules. Then, in the top rule's first field of the
newly-created branch, select the :guilabel:`Active` parameter from the drop-down menu. The rule then
automatically fills out to read: :guilabel:`Active` *is* `set`.

> For the first field of the bottom rule of the branch, select :guilabel:`Active` from the drop-down

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For the first input of the bottom rule of the branch, select :guilabel:`Active` from the drop-down
```

:doc:`../../sales/crm/pipeline/lost_opportunities`.

By default, Odoo includes a few common *Lost Reasons*, such as:

- *Too expensive*
- *We don't have people/skills*
- *Not enough stock*

When determining which reasons to include in a lost leads reactivation email, consider what the
email is advertising, in order pinpoint one or more relevant lost reasons. Then, add a rule stating,
:guilabel:`Lost Reason` *does not contain* `_____` for every reason in the database, **except** for
the relevant one(s).

.. example::
   If the email advertises a selection of previously-limited merchandise that is now back in stock,
   it makes sense to target leads with the lost reason: *not enough stock*.

   .. image:: lost_leads_email/out-of-stock.png
      :align: center
      :alt: A list of filter rules that exclude all lost reasons except for Out of Stock.

   If the email advertises a price reduction, it makes sense to target leads with the lost reason:
   *too expensive*.

   .. image:: lost_leads_email/too-expensive.png
      :align: center
      :alt: A list of filter rules that exclude all lost reasons except for Too Expensive.

> 
> .. _analyze_results:

Reviewer 4: Unused anchor
```suggestion
```

criteria.

.. image:: lost_leads_email/smart-buttons.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Mailing page of a sent email showing the smart buttons along the top of the page.

The smart buttons include:

- :guilabel:`Sent`: total number of emails sent.
- :guilabel:`Opened`: percentage of recipients that opened the email.
- :guilabel:`Replied`: percentage of recipients that replied to the email.
- :guilabel:`Clicked`: click-through rate (%) of recipients that clicked on a link in the email.
- :guilabel:`Leads/Opportunities`: number of leads (or opportunities) that have been created in the
  *CRM* pipeline, as a result of the email campaign.
- :guilabel:`Quotations`: number of quotations that have been created in the *Sales* application, as
  a result of the email.
- :guilabel:`Invoiced`: total revenues generated, as a result of the email campaign, via invoices
  sent to, and paid by, customers. These values are recorded in either the *Invoicing* or
  *Accounting* application, depending on which app is installed in the database.
- :guilabel:`Received`: percentage of recipients that received the email.

> - :guilabel:`Bounced`: percentage of emails that bounced (:dfn:`not delievered`).

Reviewer 4: Spelling
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Bounced`: percentage of emails that bounced (:dfn:`not delivered`).
```
